{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2867
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;}
\paperw11900\paperh16840\margl1440\margr1440\vieww11520\viewh8400\viewkind0
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf0 Claude, you are a senior iOS engineer + UX architect rebuilding DAWT-Transcribe as a shippable App Store app.\
\
DAWT CONSTITUTION (HARD GATES)\
- Design for tired people, not optimal ones (fatigue, stress, low literacy, bad connectivity, partial compliance).\
- Auntie Test: does it make an auntie feel more capable, not smaller?\
- No-Shame: no guilt prompts, no panic red, no countdown pressure, no scarcity theatre. Failure is private + reversible.\
- Tech humility: no novelty features without real friction reduction.\
- Constraint reads confidence: fewer screens, fewer choices, consistent system.\
\
PARSERS WE ARE LOCKING IN\
1) Perception follows rules (Gestalt): proximity, similarity, regions, connections override distance, continuity, closure, figure-ground. \'93Parsed, not guessed.\'94\
2) Saturation Budget: neutrals 0\'9610%; UI elements 50\'9690% selectively; brand accent 70\'96100% for ONE primary per screen. High saturation tires eyes.\
3) Von Restorff / One Loud Thing: one bold CTA on a calm screen wins. If everything is loud, nothing is.\
4) Desperation Moment: users switch tools at maximum pain/pressure, not because you\'92re \'93best.\'94 Design for the 2am beach interview scenario.\
\
PRODUCT SCOPE (v1.0 SHIP THIS WEEK)\
This is Product A: DAWT-Transcribe (fast voice/audio -> text -> share).\
DO NOT turn it into a knowledge management tool (no tags, search, filters, sorting, metadata forms, segment editing, tabs, dashboards).\
\
SCREENS (2 total; History optional as 3rd)\
1) Home\
2) Result\
(Optional 3) History list (simple recent list only)\
\
HOME SCREEN (must be calm + premium)\
- Title: DAWT-TRANSCRIBE (quiet title; orientation, not theatre)\
- One primary CTA: \'93New transcription\'94\
- History link only if there are items (optional)\
Interaction: tapping \'93New transcription\'94 opens an iOS Action Sheet (NOT a new screen):\
- Record audio\
- Import audio file\
- Transcribe from link (URL)\
- Cancel\
\
URL TRANSCRIPTION (KEY PART)\
- \'93Transcribe from link\'94 opens a small bottom sheet (NOT a full screen):\
  - Title: \'93Paste a link\'94\
  - One URL field (autofocus; if clipboard contains a URL, prefill or suggest)\
  - Primary: \'93Transcribe\'94\
  - Secondary: Cancel\
  - Helper: \'93Direct audio/video links work best (mp3, m4a, mp4).\'94\
- Behavior: show \'93Fetching audio\'85\'94 then \'93Transcribing\'85 You can leave this screen.\'94\
- If unsupported/blocked: \'93Couldn\'92t use that link. Try a direct audio/video link.\'94\
- Do NOT promise YouTube/TikTok/etc in v1 unless robust and legal.\
\
RESULT SCREEN (the product)\
Top bar:\
- Back (left)\
- Share (right) -> iOS Share Sheet\
Header:\
- \'93Transcription complete\'94 (or \'93Transcribing\'85\'94 state)\
- Small helper: \'93Tap Share to send or save.\'94\
Body:\
- Transcript with timestamps in a single column (high legibility; monospaced digits for timestamps)\
Bottom:\
- Primary CTA: \'93New transcription\'94\
No tabs. No extra actions competing.\
\
EXPORT / SHARE (v1.0)\
- One action: Share in top-right.\
- Generate automatically and share:\
  - .txt\
  - .md\
- No export settings screens.\
- Filenames:\
  DAWT_Transcribe_YYYY-MM-DD_HHMM_<Source>.md (and .txt)\
- Markdown format:\
  # Transcription\
  Source: <filename or url>\
  Date: <auto>\
  00:13 \'97 line\'85\
  00:22 \'97 line\'85\
- Optional: long-press transcript for \'93Copy all\'94 (no extra buttons required).\
\
VISUAL SYSTEM (premium + calm, consistent)\
- Warm off-white background (paper-like), not pure white.\
- One accent gold/yellow used ONLY for primary CTA and tiny highlights.\
- SF Pro system font, strong hierarchy, generous line-height.\
- Hairline separators, soft surfaces; avoid heavy outlines.\
- Touch targets 44pt minimum.\
- Squint test: only the primary CTA \'93shouts.\'94\
\
ARCHITECTURE REQUIREMENTS (shippable)\
- SwiftUI\
- Clean separation: UI / Domain / Data\
- async/await\
- Persist history locally (choose simplest reliable: file-based JSON store or CoreData; justify choice).\
- Save transcript artifacts with: id, createdAt, sourceType (record/file/url), sourceName, duration (if available), transcriptText.\
- Safe state handling: if app backgrounds mid-transcription, keep draft safe and resume or fail gracefully without losing work.\
\
TRANSCRIPTION ENGINE\
Pick ONE approach that is realistic for v1 and implement it:\
- If WhisperKit is present, wire it properly.\
- If still stubbed, include stub for UI tests but ensure the architecture supports real transcription.\
URL fetch:\
- download direct media URL to temp file (with size guardrails and clear errors)\
- then transcribe\
\
NO-SHAME COPY (use this tone)\
- \'93Transcribing\'85 You can leave this screen.\'94\
- \'93Transcription complete. Tap Share to send or save.\'94\
- \'93Couldn\'92t finish right now. Your audio is safe. Try again when you\'92re ready.\'94\
- \'93Couldn\'92t use that link. Try a direct audio/video link.\'94\
\
DELIVERABLES\
1) File/module structure plan\
2) SwiftUI code for Home, Result, URL sheet, Action Sheet, History (optional)\
3) Data model + persistence implementation\
4) Export generator for .txt and .md + Share Sheet presentation\
5) State/error handling implementation with the no-shame copy\
6) App Store checklist: permissions (mic), privacy notes, accessibility, testing steps\
\
CONSTRAINT\
If you propose anything outside v1 scope, label it \'93v1.1+\'94 and do NOT include it in code.}